STEPS TO COMPLETE THIS LAB



The tasks are described as if you are on the job, and someone asks you to configure this network. It’s not a cookbook where we tell exactly what to do and in what order.  This helps you think through what is really needed instead of just typing in commands.




Basics
Each device should have a configured hostname.
Logging messages on R1 should never interrupt what you are typing on the CLI.
The console log on R1 should never timeout if you are idle.
The interfaces on the core switches that connect to R1 require a description so you know what the interfaces are for.
When you mistype a command on R1, it shouldn’t attempt to connect to a hostname.


REQUIRED VLANs:
 
VLAN 100: DATA
VLAN 200: VOICE
VLAN 300: PRINTERS
VLAN 408: MGMT


H1 and H2 should be assigned to VLAN 10.
Prepare interface GigabitEthernet 0/2 on ASW1 so that the interface can connect to a computer in VLAN 10 and a phone in VLAN 20.
Configure required trunks between the access and distribution layer switches:
The access layer switches should use a dynamic method to negotiate the trunk link.
The distribution layer switches should use a static method to create a trunk.
The links between the distribution layer switches have to be bundled:
You need to use a negotiation, but due to company policy, you are not allowed to use a proprietary protocol.
DSW1 should actively negotiate, while DSW2 should only respond to requests.
The links between the core layer switches have to be bundled:
You are not allowed to use any protocols to establish this link.
Configure the network so that we use the fastest spanning tree protocol option. A spanning tree should be calculated for every VLAN.
The DSW1 switch has to be the root bridge for all VLANs. When this switch fails, SW2 should take over.
The hosts are modern computers that boot up in a couple of seconds. Make sure that when they are connected, they can send traffic immediately, and they don’t have to wait for the network to converge.
The security officer fears malicious hosts might attempt to influence the spanning tree protocol. Here are your requirements to deal with this:
When a host sends a BPDU, the interface should go down immediately.
The interface should recover automatically after 10 minutes.
Company policy dictates that you should use different timers for spanning tree:
Spanning tree BPDUs should be sent every three seconds.
The port state should transition after ten seconds when a new configuration BPDU propagates throughout the network.
A configuration BPDU should expire after 15 seconds.
Ensure these timers are always used, even when another switch becomes the root bridge.
IP Addressing
The campus network requires IPv4 and IPv6 addressing.

IPv4
Here are the requirements for IPv4:

NETWORK TO USE 172.64.0.0/ prefix.

The VLANs have the following requirements:
VLAN 100: contains a maximum of 100 devices.
VLAN 200: contains a maximum of 40 devices.
VLAN 300: contains a maximum of 12 devices.
VLAN 408: contains a maximum of 6 devices.

Each device requires a loopback interface with a /32 IP address.

Point-to-point links require IP addresses (when needed)

The link between R1 and ISP uses the 10.10.10.0/30 subnet:
R1: 10.10.10.1
ISP: 10.10.10.2

You must be as efficient with IP address space while considering future growth for new network devices and VLANs.


IPv6
Here are the requirements for IPv6:

You must use the 2001:db8::/32 prefix.
Create an addressing scheme and take this into account:
VLANs: use a /64 prefix.
Loopback interfaces: Use a /128 prefix.
Point-to-point links: Use a /127 prefix.
Configure all IPv6 addresses.

Routing Technologies
The campus network requires IPv4 and IPv6 routing.



IPv4
Here are the IPv4 requirements:

Configure R1 to reach 1.1.1.1 or any other network behind the ISP router. You are not allowed to make any changes to the ISP router.
Configure the campus network so all VLANs, point-to-point links, and loopback interfaces are reachable:
You must use a non-proprietary link-state routing protocol that converges quickly.
All devices should be in a single area.
Distribution layer switches shouldn’t have any unnecessary neighbor adjacencies.
The core layer switches should not have a DR/BDR election on their bundled interface.
The core layer switches neighbor adjacency requires fast convergence:
A hello packet should be sent every 5 seconds.
The neighbor adjacency should be declared down after not receiving hello packets for 15 seconds.
All loopback and VLAN interfaces should be reachable.
IPv6
Here are the IPv6 requirements:

Configure R1 so that you can reach 2001:DB8::1:1:1:1 or any other network behind the ISP router. You are not allowed to make any changes to the ISP router.
Configure internal routing on all campus network devices:
Use the IPv4 address on the loopback interfaces as the router ID.
Use a single area.
Ensure there are no unneeded neighbor adjacencies between the distribution layer switches.
Advertise a default route on R1 in the routing protocol.
All loopback and VLAN interfaces should be reachable.
Network Services
Users in VLAN 10 have been complaining that their default gateway sometimes becomes unreachable. This happens because of stability issues on DSW1 and DSW2.

Configure a virtual default gateway address for VLAN 10 so that this won’t cause any more issues.
Hosts should be able to receive IP addresses automatically:

Configure a pool on R1 for VLAN 10 with these requirements:
Use the virtual gateway address as the default gateway.
Use DNS server 1.1.1.1.
Use domain name MYDOMAIN.LOCAL
Lease time 48 hours.
Configure a pool on R1 for VLAN 20 and include the IP address of TFTP server 10.0.0.135.
Test the IP address assignment by disabling routing on H1 and H2 and enable the DHCP client.
Users request access to the server on 1.1.1.1:

Configure R1 so that all campus switches and hosts can reach 1.1.1.1.
You are not allowed to make any changes to the ISP router.
The security officer noticed that the logging information was inconsistent. To solve this, all clocks on the switches have to be synchronized:

R1 should use 1.1.1.1 as the time source.
Core layer switches should use R1 as the time source.
Distribution layer switches should use the core switches as a time source.
Access layer switches should use the distribution layer switches as a time source.


Security
The company policy requires some security measures:

When someone logs into R1, it should show an “authorized users only” message.
CSW1 should show a MOTD message: “This is CSW1”.
Interface GigabitEthernet1/0 on ASW1 which connects to H1 should be protected:
Only a single MAC address is allowed.
The first learned MAC address should be stored.
When there is a violation, the interface should be shut.
Hosts in VLAN 10 are not allowed to reach the HTTP server on 1.1.1.1. All other traffic is permitted.


Network Management
DSW1 requires an external syslog server located at 10.0.0.240.
Configure the Cisco proprietary discovery protocol so that switches and R1 can learn about each other:
Messages should be sent every five seconds.
When a device doesn’t receive any messages, information should be discarded after 60 seconds.
Messages should not be sent to hosts or the ISP.
Configure a non-proprietary discovery protocol on the access layer switches:
Don’t send or receive messages on the interfaces that connect to the distribution layer switches.
Don’t send any messages to hosts but you should receive them.
CSW1 should be configured so that you can connect to it remotely in a secure way:
Use username “cisco” with password “cisco”.
The password should not be stored in clear text.
Telnet traffic should not be permitted.